let's bring in Heidi Joe Castro now our
correspondent in Washington DC Heidi
this is of course a developing situation
what we've heard from the officials in
the US we've had a breakthrough that's
what was said on that conference call
what else do we
know that's right this is information
coming from an unnamed top Us official
and while they did say that this was a
significant opening in these talks they
also caution that this doesn't mean that
a deal may come through the next few
days however this is significant uh
again saying that this is a pretty
significant opening here uh more
information was shed also on this talk
between President Biden and Benjamin
Netanyahu which lasted about half an
hour uh today and in it they did discuss
the recent response from Hamas to the
latest Israeli uh ceasefire and hostage
proposal and though there were not
specific details given on how those
talks or what those discussions were the
readout of this talk between of the call
between the two leaders said that they
reviewed uh the response from Hamas and
talked about just the logistics which
seems to be now the biggest hurdle in
how to implement uh this deal but again
while this is certainly something that
the US is hoping for and there seems to
be more energy between Behind These
talks now the use officials are still
cautioning that it doesn't mean that
we're expecting to see a deal in just
the next few days this is still
something that may take weeks if it
happens at all and Heidi as you note
there and mentioned that I suppose we we
shouldn't expect a deal uh in in days or
or even weeks but there was a note from
that unnamed official that President
Biden was encouraged that prime minister
Netanyahu was reauthorizing his torm to
re-engage in the talks what what can we
glean from
that absolutely is forward motion as
opposed to the stagnation of those talks
in Doha in the recent weeks and
certainly Biden has been a driving force
trying to speak with Netanyahu with
Israel one of the US's strongest allies
to uh accept the terms of this deal
which again Biden has always emphasized
originated from the Israeli government
itself and Biden will have an
opportunity to further try to gain
worldwide support in encouraging Israel
to take this deal that will be next week
when he is expected to talk about the
terms of this deal at the NATO Summit
here in Washington and Heidi of course
if we put this in the context of what we
knew earlier about President Joe Biden
speaking to prime minister Netanyahu on
the phone what else did we hear that
those two laders
discussed well the readout of the call
was very uh non-detailed but we know
again that they talked about the
ceasefire and we talked that they talked
about the Hamas response which came on
Wednesday a deliver to Qatari and
Egyptian mediators to the latest
development in those talks exactly what
uh the response is we have still yet to
learn all right thank you that's Heidi
jastro reporting from Washington DC and
we'll just recap that we are
following make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz